Thread 

- A thread is an executional path or sequnce in the program. 


Where does a thread exist ?

- When we switch on the computer, a special program called
  OS or operating system is loaded from hard disk to memory(RAM)
  
 - This OS will help us interact with the hardware and the CPU.
 
 - When you try to use any application in your computer, 
   the OS will take that application program from the disk and creates
   an instance of that application in the memory. 
   
- This instance is called a process, 
  process is also known as "Context" of the application. 
  
  - Each process contains metadata which will have the following: 
    - PID or processID
    - files which the application uses for reading and writing of data
    - code or the program instruction which are goibg to be executed
      on the CPU
    - heap which contains the data needed for our application
  
  main thread:
  =============
  main thread is the thread used by JVM to execute a program
  main thread will have its own stack and instruction pointer, 
   stack: a region in the memory where our local variables or object
          references and methods are executed
   instruction pointer: Its a pointer which points to the address of 
    next instruction which the thread is gouibg to execute. 
    
    
process vs threads:
===================

Memory:
 Process has its own memory
 Threads will share the memory with other threads in the process
 
 Weight :
 Process is heavy weight  as it takes more time to start and stop the 
  process. 
  PRocess consumes more resources like memory
  Switching from one process to another process is not fast. 
  
  Thread is light weight, it takes less time to start and stop. 
  Switching from one thread to another thread is faster. 
  
  Thread class: 
  - java.lang
  
  
  Thread creation: Thread can be created using 2 ways: 
  1. Thread can be created by extending Thread class
  2. By implementing Runnable interface. 
  
  When you extend Thread class to create a thread, you 
  lock your class, your class cannot extend any other class.
  
  When you implement Runnable interrface to create a Thread, 
  you are free to extend any class.
  
  Creating a Thread using Runnable aalways preferred  in projects. 
  We can  use Java 8 features like Lambda expression when you use
  Runnable. 
  
  
  Thread Synchronization: 
  
  Synchronization is a concept which makes sure that only one thread can execute
  the block of code at a time. 
  
  It prevents inconsistent data or a race condition when multiple threads try to 
  modify the shared resources. 
  
  To void this race condition we use the ekey word
  'synchronized'
  
  When a thread enters a synchronized method it acquires the lock  of the 
  the object.
  
  other threads trying to execute the synchronized method on the same object
  must wait until the lock  is released.
  
  When a thread is executing synchronized method, no other thread will 
  interrupt in the middle. 
  
  When the thread completes its task, it releases the lock and changes
  made by thread will updated in the main memory. 
  
  when the next thread acquires the lock, it reads the values from the memory. 
  
  without synchronization, multiple threads may read a shared variable
  at the same time, this will lead to inconsistent data and this is called race condition. 
  
  
  Message - write(), read() - Message object shared by both PRoducer and Consumer.
   It is a shared resource.
  
  Producer - Thread which creates a message, it calls the write() method of Message
  
  Consumer - Which consumes(read()) the messages produced by Producer thread.
  
  Producer waits till Consumer has consumed(read) the produced message. 
  Consumer waits till Producer produces a new message. 
  
  When producer producer produces(write) a message, it will notify the consumer.
  so that consumer know that a new message is available and consumer can consume that message.
  
  
  Similarly, Consumer will notify the Producer that the message has been consumed. so that
  producer can produce a new message. 
  
  Me
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      