StreamAPI:

StreamAPI is introduced in Java 8.  
StreamAPI contains the classes for processing the objects. 
StreamAPI is present in package java,util.stream

IOStreams are different from StreamAPI
IOStreams are for performing read and write operations on files. 
Whereas StreamAPI is used to process the collection of objects. 

Stream: A Stream is a sequence of objects. 
        A stream supports various methods which can be used to process
        the object to produce the desired output. 
        
Streams help: 
 to create efficient java code. 
 it uses lambda expressions.
 
 Stream can be created using: 
 
 -stream()
 -  of()
 
 
 Pipieline: 
 ----------
 A pipeline in StreamAPI is a sequence of stream operations
 
 The operations like filter, map, collect etc are connected
 and executed as chain of operations
 
 These operations process the ata from a source and produces
 a final result. 
 
 Pipeline: 
 Collection->Stream -> operations-> Result
 
 Stream API supports two types of operations: 
 1. Intermediate operations:
 
 Intermediate operations allow us to transform or filter the objects
 before the final result is produced. 
 These operations return another stream object as the result. 
 These operations can be chained one  after the other. 
 
 Terminal Operations: 
 Terminal operations will start/trigger the execution of the 
 entire stream pipeline. 
 
 They produce a result such as a collection, they do not 
 return a Stream/
 Examples of terminal operations: 
 collect, forEach, count, reduce, min, max, anyMatch, allMach
 
 
 Lazy evaluation vs Eager evaluation: 
 
 Lazy evaluation is used by intermediate operations like
  - map, filter,  sorted etc. 
  
  These operations are called lazy because they are not executed
  immediately when the stream is created.
  They are just recorded to run later. 
  
  Actual operation starts only when terminal operation like
  collect, forEach, count etc is invoked. 
  
  They are called lazy because they just build a pipeline and delaays
  the execution until needed. 
 
 
 Eager Evaluation: 
 - Terminal operations like collect, forEach will 
 trigger the execution of all the intermeidate operations
 - as soon a terminal operation is called, it immediately executes
   the intermediate functions/operations. 
   
 Thats why terminal operations are called eager operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2. Terminal operations
 
 
 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






